Let's talk about this handleSubmit function.
There's a whole bunch of custom logic and flow
that needs to happen inside of here.
What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna write it all out
in pseudocode and over the next couple of videos,
we're gonna go ahead and implement it one by one.
So, first thing is,
we need to stop the form from submitting
and turn the loader on.
Okay, that's good.
And then, second thing we need to do is to,
start the page transition.
Third thing we need to do is to
create the payment method via Stripe.
Fourth thing we need to do is handle any errors from Stripe.
Those are gonna be errors like,
credit card is not accepted, it's been declined.
There's not enough currency on it.
Things like Discover card is not accepted in this country.
All the errors that you could possibly get back
from a credit card processor
are gonna be handled in that number four,
and then we'll display them to the user.
The fifth thing is we need to send the token
that just came from step four.
Okay, we'll say token comes back here if successful.
Actually that doesn't happen in the error step,
it happens in right here,
create the payment method.
So, we will send the token from step three,
to our keystone server via a custom mutation.
And number six, what we need to do is
change the page to view the order.
So, if they have successfully come back
from sending the token,
what will have happened in step five is that
we've created an order on the backend.
And then we wanna change the user to the page,
so they can view that order
of any information that they might have.
And then seven,
close the cart,
and eight,
turn the loader off.
All right, so first thing.
Stop the form from submitting
and turn the loader on.
Okay. So we need our own loading state in this case, Why?
Because, normally we would use the loading state
from our query or our mutation,
which was happening here.
But in this case, we need to be basically saying
we're doing a whole bunch of work,
everywhere from this step to this step.
We need to show the user that something is happening.
So, if that's the case,
you need to hold your own piece of state,
both for errors and for loading.
So, at the very top of your checkout,
we'll say const, error and setError
is equal to useState,
and we gotta import useState from React, good.
And then the next one will be
loading and setLoading,
is equal to useState,
and by default loading is in a false state.
While we're up here,
we'll also get access to our Stripe objects.
So const stripe is equal to useStripe
that is shipped via the React JS Stripe library,
and we're going to use that
in one of the steps down here.
What is it yelling at us for?
Cannot find the element in context,
you need to wrap the part of your app,
that calls useStripe in an elements provider.
Ah, I see that's a bit of an issue,
we're trying to say useStripe right here,
but it's not until this
that we actually get access to it.
So the provider is at a lower level
than where we're trying to use it.
So, little solution,
let's rename this checkout component here to CheckoutForm.
And then what we wanna do
is make a new component down here called Checkout.
That is simply just going to return these two,
so the Stripe element provider,
and then inside of that
we'll render out the CheckoutForm.
Okay. So what happened there is,
we redid the Checkout component.
It's still the thing that's exported from this file,
but because we need access to this useStripe,
this checkout form needs to be wrapped
in that elements provider.
So, we just put it in its own component
and render that with child inside of it,
and therefore, the provider is at a higher level
that we have that.
Okay. So that's not no longer giving us grief,
about any of that stuff.
Good, we can still render that out.
So, we have our loading state.
So, we'll go right here,
stop the form 'cause it ain't good,
and then we'll say setLoading is true.
We gotta start the page transition.
So, we'll go here
and we'll say nProgress.start
and we'll need to import nProgress.
Take a look here, there we go.
It's being imported.
And I think this should start working already.
So, if I go ahead and submit it,
see the nProgress starts going,
it will just inch along
until it eventually decides to stop.
'Cause we're not actually doing anything behind,
but that's working.
Next one, create the payment method via Stripe.
Token comes back here if successful.
Okay. So this is where we got that
interface with our Stripe library.
So, the method we're gonna be calling is,
stripe.createPaymentMethod.
And that will take a couple options.
Basically just say,
the type is a card
because Stripe will also let you pay
via a couple other options,
AHC, ACH, Automatic Clearing House.
Yeah, we don't have that in Canada,
but that's a very popular way.
Debit cards, things like that
in our case we're doing credit card.
And then the actual card is,
you just give it reference to the actual Stripe elements,
which is available down here.
So we say elements,
and that element is gonna be available via another hook.
So, we gotta go back up here,
const elements is equal to useElements
and that auto imported from the,
again from the Stripe React JS library.
I'll say elements.getElement,
and then you pass it, cardElement.
And it is smart enough to know,
that you're only allowed to render out
one of those card elements on the page.
So, you don't have to actually have a ref
or anything like that, between those.
Now, this is in asynchronous function,
so we'll put an await in front of it.
And from that it,
what is returned is,
so say const error.
So if there's any errors
they will be returned as a value here,
which is really nice.
So, you don't have to catch them.
And then payment method is going to be,
have the token that's on it.
So, go ahead and console.log the payment method,
Just to see what we're working with.
And we need to,
Oh, it's giving me some grief.
Oh, await is only allowed inside of an async function.
We forgot to make this async.
Oh no, not that one, not the component,
the handle submit needs to be async.
Give it a refresh, open it up.
Now, there is a whole bunch of Stripe test cards
that you can use,
to test successful transactions.
If you just Google Stripe test cards,
you'll see that there's a whole page of different cards
that will say no authentication required,
authentication required, Visa, MasterCard,
Discover, international cards, 3D secure testing cards,
specific responses and errors,
it's nuts how many they can possibly have.
And they also have cards that will throw specific errors,
so you can handle them.
And, but in our case they always just send
a really good message back to the user.
So, I've even in my own website,
i've not needed to use those.
The only one that I need to use is
four two four two, four two four two,
four two four two.
And I have a little keyboard shortcut in my text expander,
is any time i type colon four two,
it'll just expand to four two four two four two four two
four two four two four two.
So, I wonder what the captions were
like when I was saying that.
Four two, and then month, two two two.
So if you're taking this after February 2022,
sorry, you'll have to change that.
Two two two, two two two two two.
And I love that because I can just hold on to my two key
and it will work out.
So, I'm gonna open up my dev tools here
and go ahead and submit that.
It says we gotta do some work and good bam
oh, it just after a split second,
what comes back is this object here.
And this is the information
that comes back from Stripe.
You can tell that it says live mode is false,
object is payment method.
The most important one is this ID.
This is your actual, your token
that we're going to be using.
So, we'll head back to this
and keep going through all of them.
So handle any errors that are from Stripe.
So we'll say, if there is an error, then setError
and then we can go back down,
right above this card element,
and we'll give ourselves a little
if statement that says error.
If there is an error,
then go ahead and give yourself a paragraph
with the error.message.
And I believe we can find one of those test cards
that will give you a, an actual error.
IntegrationError can only create one element of type card.
Oh, sometimes that pops up.
Sometimes it has, I think because of the dance
that we do back and forth between Next JS and whatnot,
but don't sweat about that.
It's probably because of the live reloading
and whatnot, that that pops up.
But let's take a look at these tests and cards.
There should be an error card.
Here we go.
We'll, this one will fail with an error.
So, go back,
try to use that card.
Check it out
and (laughs)
it just says error.message,
because I forgot to put curly brackets around it.
Here we go,
your postal code is incomplete.
So there we go.
Actually in this case, the payment did go through,
but you can see how we can catch errors
and actually display it to the user.
That text is very large.
So, we probably wanna make that
a little bit smaller.
You can, I'm just gonna do a quick little hack here.
You could make a custom stock component,
but I'm just gonna say font size is 12.
There we go, much better.
Next up, send the token from step three
to our keystone server.
Okay, we'll get into that in a second.
Change the page, we'll get into that.
Close the cart.
We'll get into that if it's successful.
So we can, and then finally turn the loader off.
So, we'll say setLoading is false.
And then we also want to say nProgress.done.
Okay, so that's not totally flashed out just yet,
but I think that's enough for this video.
In the next one,
we'll have to start getting into the backend,
and writing some custom mutations for that spot.